# Reflection

I chose to format this recent news article I wrote because it was separated in different sections and included data and charts I could make sure are communicated to the reader properly. I decided to put the individual sections in smaller headers than before, using 3 #'s rather than 2, as these sections are key points within the article and I did not want to make them feel separate. This formatting style is also more similar to how it appears on the [MN Daily's website](https://mndaily.com/294574/campus/weisman-is-taking-steps-to-return-their-indigenous-artifacts-but-more-can-be-done/). This article also includes an image and a chart graphic, which I could simply include by using my "images" folder created in the previous assignment. I formatted one piece of statistical data that helps explain the story in a brief list below my chart graphic, and I felt as though this was the only place I could include that type of formatting without changing too much about the way the article is written. I italicized the image captions to separate them from the rest of the article, and I bolded the sub-head to mark its importance on the article's visual hierarchy. There were a number of embedded links which cite information in this article, so I felt I could naturally include this within Markdown. News articles are typically broken down into 1-2 sentence paragraphs, so I felt this article could be an applicable example of using paragraphs within the Markdown format. I also selected this article as I felt as though this article's information is important to share, and utilizes some statistical information that helps explain what is happening.
