# 3 first impressions about AI in technical writing.

This week we learned about generative AI and how it can have benifits and downsides when creating media content.

## How AI works

The first thing I learned is about the way AI functions in general. Many forms of AI are used daily when identifying categorized input and responding accordingly in systems such as fact checking.I also learned that based on the content fed into the generative AIs, Large Language Model chatbots (LLMs) only predict what the next word will be in a sentence, rather than formulating a thought prior to responding. It is based on a lot of trial and error and may oftentimes hallucinate due to the fact that something untrue may still "make sense” for it to say in context of the prompt. This is also why some AI images include incorrect details such as more or less fingers on a person’s hand than expected, since they do not have the human capacity to recognize mistakes. 

Inaccuracies can also occur due to the simple mistake of training AI on false, outdated or misleading information. GenAI in general can create more than just information text, however, as they can create images, video and even audio based on the media trained within their datasets. One needs to write a reasonably detailed and descriptive prompt if they want something specific, and sometimes may still need to tweak the output to ensure all the information is correct.

## Different models serve different purposes.

For example the Gemini 2.5 flash model is more suited for quick and straightforward responses. It is more so used to summarize information that you insert via your prompt, attached websites or attached files. But for more nuanced responses, one would use the slower, yet more thorough, Gemini 2.0 pro model for things like coding, research and usable technical writing topics. This model approaches their task producing a cohesive response from a combination of smaller information-gathering tasks. However, the tradeoff is that this type of model will take longer to create a response if one is in a time crunch, or would simply prefer to create a series of multiple prompts in a shorter time frame. Certain models offered by the University such as the Deep Research model construct full reports on a given topic, but it is limited with students only being able to generate 10 reports per month. Some models are inherently suited to generating code, and others can go more into depth for educational conversations with guided learning.

## Copyright and other concerns

I also learned about the potential copyright issues with generative AI tools, and how there can be conflicts with legally protected content being used as data to train AI algorithms. Not only is the style and content of one’s writing subject to being used to train LLMs, but artwork uploaded online has, in many cases, been used to train AI image generators without permission, resulting in AI producing unwantedly derivative material based on someone else’s ideas. This is why AI can be considered plagiarism when regarding one’s academic integrity. AI is not a source, it just summarizes information from other sources. Because of this, if one were to use AI to write or even just gather information for a paper, it is entirely unclear where said information came from, and is referencing an unknowable amount of other people’s ideas and research without proper credit or citation. With the exponentially advancing ability to generate realistic images and video, AI can also be used to create false imagery of people for the sake of propaganda or even generally malicious, libelous defamation. Generative AI systems also have a harmful environmental impact with the massive amounts of data used to both train and prompt AI algorithms.The data centers which house AI systems use more energy than other types of digital programming and have a large carbon footprint. Storage is also especially a point of concern when people are using these prompts for many tasks in daily life, and so much water is used to cool the GPUs stored in data centers. Every generational prompt adds to the environmental impact, but I personally have always been on the side of holding companies accountable for offering services that maintain sustainable practices rather than placing the blame on the individual users. Although, this still is something certainly worth considering when one has the habit of inputting many prompts into AI for daily life.

### Conclusion

Overall, I learned about the various uses of AI for content generation, and how AI systems work. I learned about different LLMs offered by the University and which taks tasks they are best suited for. I also learned about the ethical and environmental concerns about GenAI in regards to generating content based on uncredits work and the carbon footprint created by the massive data centers required for GenAI systems to operate.
